There is a strong indication that the economy may be heading towards further economic growth, as His Excellency, Professor Benedict Okey Oramah, President and Chairman Board of Directors, African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) will be discussing critical issues that will give further insights into the economic transformation of Africa at the 2023 Annual Lecture of The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, CIBN scheduled for Wednesday, March 29, 2023, 10am at the Grand Banquet Hall, Civic Centre, Ozumba Mbadiwe Road, Victoria Island, Lagos.  Ken Opara, Ph.D., President/Chairman of Council, CIBN as well as the Chief Host of the occasion said The theme of the Lecture is “Unlocking the Constraints to Africa’s Economic Transformation: Insights into the Power of Capital” and will be facilitated by Professor Oramah who is the Guest Speaker of the event. Dr Opara further stated that The CIBN Annual Lecture is a public enlightenment programme aimed at keeping members of the public constantly abreast of topical economic issues and policies of government at the national and international levels. In his words: This year’s edition of the Lecture will assemble chieftains of the banking and finance industry, top public officials, foreign diplomats, members of the academia, top executives of the organised private sector as well as other stakeholders in the Nigerian economy who will dimension and articulate clear strategies on how to address the impediments to Africa’s economic development.  In a bid to ensure that Nigerians from all walks of life benefit from the conversation, he disclosed that the Institute has made the programme free of charge for participants.  Over the years, Opara continue, the event has attracted globally respected scholars and professionals such as Honourable Justice Emmanuel Ayoola, (Rtd), the Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices & Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC); Professor John C. Anyanwu, former Lead Research Economist, African Development Bank; the late Professor Dora Akunyili, Director-General, National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration Control (NAFDAC); Sir Ademola Benjamin Aladekomo, Founder and Chairman, CHAMS Plc;  Dr. Andrew Hilton, Director and Joint Founder, Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation(CSFI) United Kingdom; Professor Osita Ogbu, former Minister of National Planning and Chief Economic adviser to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria; Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina, President, African Development Bank; Mr. Michael Lafferty, Founder and Chairman, the Lafferty Group; Professor Kingsley C. Moghalu, Professor of Practice in International Business and Public Policy at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and the Founder of Sogato Strategies LLC; Mr. George Lewis, Chairman and Portfolio Manager, Royal Bank of Canada(RBC); Professor Melvin Ayogu, Fellow, Mapungubwe Institute of Strategic Reflection, South Africa among others.  To ensure that this year’s event is unique and impactful, The CIBN Boss says Institute has set up an Implementation Supervisory Committee, chaired by Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Fidelity Bank Plc. Other members of the Committee are Dr. Adaeze Udensi, Managing Director, Titan Trust Bank; Dr. Ozoemena Nnaji, Director, Trade and Exchange, Central Bank of Nigeria; Mr. Abubakar A. Bello, Managing Director/Chief Executive, Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM); and Mr. Ekene Uzor, Special Assistant to the President on Banking and Strategy, African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank).  Ken Opara, Ph.D., resident/Chairman of Council, CIBN is the Chief Host of the occasion while Akin Morakinyo, Registrar/CE, CIBN is the host of the Occasion.