Executive Director, Commercial, NASCON Allied Industries, Fatima Aliko Dangote has revealed that the Dangote Group has invested in innovative technologies and processes to achieve gender equality and empowerment of all women in the organisation. Besides, Fatima disclosed that women are playing pivotal roles in the success story of the Dangote Group. To drive transformative change, she said the company is implementing the policy of continuous improvement in its production processes with state-of-the-art production facilities, which are already being managed by women. Speaking while opening the International Women’s Day Conference in Lagos and Dangote Cement Plc, Obajana Plant, Fatima noted that the company, through its Learning Management System (LMS), offers employees a variety of resources and opportunities that help them advance their professional and personal development. According to her, these learning and development offerings cover vast focus areas and are provided via on-the-job, classroom, and online learning platforms, to both permanent and temporary employees across all cadres, in the Group’s Nigerian and Pan-African operations. “At the plants, we have the Gamma Neutron Activation Analysis (PGNAA) for online analysis, robotic laboratory, and fully automated central control room system equipped with Human Machine Interface technology (HMI) and innovative solutions to drive resource efficiency, process optimisation and mitigate the environmental footprints of our products while delivering quality products that meet the needs of our esteemed customers,” she added. Fatima explained that Dangote Women’s Network through this year’s theme has provided a unique opportunity to holistically examine the theme of innovation and technology from a gender perspective. “We are inspired by our superheroes in STEM, and we hope this session increases your awareness of innovation, technology, and digital education, driven by women for women, and learn advancements in digital technology that address how we rethink our daily lives and achieve our personal and professional goals. “I would like to encourage our women with a few tips on leveraging technology, Equipping yourselves academically and technically, be inspired and inspire others by creating opportunities for regular interactions with female STEM champions and leaders and tapping into opportunities for hands-on experience in the form of volunteering”, she added. Speaking also, Co-Founder/COO Piggy/Vest NG, Odunayo Eweniyi said technology plays a key role and can support women in their daily responsibilities either as a mother or as a worker.  She said it’s never too early to introduce girls to technology and that supporting their passion early can lead to meaningful careers in the future. She urged the Dangote Cement Group not to relent in its Gender Balance Policy, especially as it relates to encouraging qualified women in the business of cement production. Chief Enterprises Business Officer, MTN Nigeria Mrs. Lynda Saint said women’s condition can be improved through innovative technology. She encouraged parents to expose their female children to science and technology as the world has embraced technology and innovation in every aspect of the organisation. Giving a vote of thanks at the end of the conference, Group Chief Human Resources Officer at Dangote Industries Limited, Nglan Niat commended the speakers for sharing their valuable thoughts and insights with the Dangote team. “Today marks International Women’s Day 2023, a day set aside to take stock and reflect on how far we have come in tackling gender disparity and also to recognise how much we must go to achieve equality and equity in our workplace. Having female representation at all levels of the company is essential as it contributes to a good working environment and better quality of work. That is what we are striving to achieve. The technology industry has been male-dominated, so we need to work harder to ensure that women are properly supported,” she added. Chairperson of the Dangote Women Network at the DCP Obajana, Mrs. Fatima Kabir Ikunaiye said the Network began operation in 2017, and since then it has carried out several interventional programmes in the cause of women. Some of the programmes, Mrs. Ikunaiye said include: support for orphanages and vulnerable homes, sensitisation and empowerment of women as well as training them on skill acquisition. 