SIFAX Group Board has approved the appointments of Bode Ojeniyi as the Group Managing Director, Sky Capital Group, the financial services subsidiary of the Group while Oliver Omajuwa is now the Deputy Director, Strategy &amp; Operations for SIFAX Group. Prior to these new appointments, Ojeniyi served as the Group Executive Director, SIFAX Group, while Omajuwa was the General Manager, SIFAX Off Dock. Ojeniyi, an astute financial expert with about three decades of professional
experience in the financial services industry, will seek to deploy his wealth of
experience to direct and reposition the Sky Capital Group to become one of the
leading financial institutions in Nigeria and globally. He holds a Bachelor of Science Degree and a Master’s of Science Degree in
Agricultural Economics from the University of Ibadan. He also holds a Master’s in
Business Administration (Strategic Management) from the Ogun State University. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Strategic Management of Nigeria and the
Institute of Credit Administration of Nigeria; a member of the Chartered
Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) and the Chartered Insurance Institute (CII),
United Kingdom and an Honorary Senior Member of the Chartered Institute of
Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). He has had previous working experience with Ecobank Nigeria, Access Bank and WAPIC Insurance. Omajuwa is a graduate of Business Administration from the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State and also holds an MBA (Marketing) from the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomosho, Oyo State. Omajuwa, who joined SIFAX Group in 2006  as a Marketing/Corporate Affairs Officer, had risen through the ranks occupying key positions including Head, Marketing &amp; Corporate Affairs and General Manager, SIFAX Off Dock. Prior to joining SIFAX Group, he worked with Classic Beverages – producers of La Casera range of beverages as pioneer Sales Analyst; Air Separation Nigeria Limited, manufacturers of medical and industrial oxygen gas, as Chief
Marketing Officer and Duraclean Gases as Admin/Marketing Manager. He is a fellow of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN), a member of the Nigeria Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Fellow of International Logistics &amp; Administration (ILA) and member, Nigeria Institute of Shipping (NIS). Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, Chairman, SIFAX Group, said the appointments reflect the commitment of the Group to the company’s vision of driving business growth and delivering excellent services to the satisfaction of its clientele through the deployment of best talents.