Following the announcement of the postponement of the 2023 governorship and Houses of Assembly elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission, more universities across the country have continued to announce an extension of the resumption date earlier proposed by the National Universities Commission. Prior to the postponement of the 2023 governorship elections by INEC, the NUC had instructed universities in the country to suspend academic activities between February 22 and March 14, 2023. However, findings by our correspondent revealed that following the postponement of the governorship elections, universities across the country have announced new resumption dates for students. At the University of Calabar, a bulletin issued by the Registrar of the institution, Gabriel Egbe, noted that the new date for resumption of academic activities is now March 20, as against the earlier date of March 14. “In  line with INEC’s decision to shift the governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections, the vice chancellor has approved the extension of the academic break embarked upon by members of the University of Calabar community. “Accordingly, staff and students are now to return to campus on March 20, 2023, when academic activities are expected to fully resume,” the circular noted. At the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, the spokesperson, Abiodun Olanrewaju, said, “Consequent upon the postponement of the governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections by INEC, the university administration hereby notifies the general public, particularly students, that the resumption of academic activities earlier scheduled for  March 15, 2023 has been shifted to Tuesday,  March 21, 2023. “Consequently, students are expected back on campus on Monday,  March 20, 2023, and to resume academic activities accordingly.” Similarly, a memorandum by the Registrar of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, Mufutau Ibrahim, stated that the first semester examination begins on Tuesday, March 21, a day after resumption. He said, “There will be an intensive physical revision exercise to prepare students adequately for the forthcoming 2022/2023 first semester examinations, which will take place from Tuesday, March 21, to Saturday,  March 25.”