L-R:  Stella Erebor, Deputy Director, Financial Services; Nnena Ukoha, Head, Corporate Communications; Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer; Hafsat Lawal, Head, Human Capital and Helen Obi, Head, Telecom Laws & Regulation, all of the Nigerian Communications Commission, during the 2023 International Women’s Day Celebration at the NCC Head Office in Abuja on Wednesday (March 8, 2023).  Danbatta stated this Goodwill Message On this occasion of the commemoration of International Women’s Day (IWD), today 8th March, 2023, I warmly congratulate all the women in the Commission, he added.  In statement sent to The Ameh News (TAN) and endorsed by Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, EVC/CEO of Nigerian Communications Commission saying This occasion presents another opportunity for me to reiterate the Commission’s irrevocable commitment to promoting gender equality and inclusive participation in line with the theme of the celebration: ‘DigitALL: Innovation and Technology for Gender Equality’’.  Today, Danbatta continue, gender inclusiveness in the Commission’s affairs permeates all cadres and disciplines. About fifty percent of the Commission’s Management team is made up of women who have distinguished themselves, and demonstrated capacity, capability and desirability to contribute to the success of the Commission in promoting and sustaining the growth of the telecoms sector, he disclosed.  “It has been established across the world, and in all parts of human endeavours that inclusion of women in leadership, has contributed in commensurate organic growth, which justifies the notion that development of any nation will be incomplete without the participation and contributions of women.  EVC noted that this is why we are deliberate, purposeful and conscious of the need to encourage women and girls to partake of the innovative digital opportunities available to them to improve their lives and skills in ways that fulfill their needs and aspirations through their chosen careers.  On this note, and on behalf of the Board and Management, the entire NCC family, I felicitate with our women folk and wish to share in their joy of womanhood, and the expected greater roles they have been destined to play in promoting peace and harmony in the world, he concluded.