Mobile phones have changed the way we live our lives. Now, not only can they help us stay connected with friends and family over social media or talk to someone on a video call without paying for data usage, but they also make everything from booking hotels and cabs to capturing memories easier than ever before thanks to their built-in cameras! We have more information in our hands than at any time in history. It has become second nature to quickly lookup helpful resources for whatever activity we need to do. Our gadgets can even anticipate what information we need and present it to us when it is most useful. The power of Technology is evident in the sweeping transformation that has set the digital age apart from the industrial age.
This transition has moved like a racing comet and arrived at the Electronic age. Popularly known as the information age, it has continued its evolution until this present day and it is a period of transition from traditional industry to an economy based information computerization. TECNO,a mobile phone brand owned by Hong Kong-based Transsion Holdings is one of the premium top 10 mobile smartphone brands in the World focused on emerging markets.
With the firm focus to become The Most Admired Stylish Smartphone and AIoT brand in global emerging markets, TECNO has delivered on its BRAND VISION (Style meets Innovative Technologies) An innovative technology brand with operations in over 70 markets globally TECNO unveiled it audacious slogan “STOP AT NOTHING” last year. The slogan pays tribute to Human Pursuit of Purpose and Ambition . It specifically honors “progressive mavericks”, those “young at heart”, and the youth who admirably stay resilient in the face of adversity . Speaking recently at a press briefing in Lagos Attai oguche – Marketing Manager – TECNO Mobile Nigeria said partnership with the media was a top priority with the brand for the new year, saying since most journalists interface with different brands, they were in a vantage position to know the loopholes that bedevil brands and hence help keep brand like theirs in check in serving consumers needs. He took journalists through a presentation on their Brand Vision, Brand Strategy, Brand Logo Demonstration,New Slogan, Brand Attributes and Milestones in 2022.
In an exhaustive question and answer session, Oguche revealed that TECNO is already ahead with new features in celebrating their innovation driven quest as a brand,Tecno introduced the world’s first telescopic macro lens for smartphones in 2022 a feature that promises to significantly improve not only the quality of macro shots but also the whole experience in taking them, it allows one to take close-up shots without having to get too close to the subject and offers 5x optical zoom in addition. The brand Joins the First Batch of Manufacturers to Make Android 13 Beta Available on their phones and are also 5G complaint.
Speaking further Oguche elaborated on the partnership between TECNO and Google. “TECNO has inked a strategic three-year partnership with Google on software that will further enhance the user experience and bring new dynamics to the smartphone market. The partnership will bring an optimised user experience for TECNO smartphones, where TECNO mobile devices will be at the forefront of delivering latest Android updates, as well as power more seamless cross-device experiences” he said.  Speaking further on this he elucidated that “The partnership enables TECNO to continue delivering new Android updates in a timely manner. As TECNO pilots more novel breakthroughs via revolutionary partnerships, its users across more than 70 markets worldwide can expect more delightful and intuitive experiences with increased connectivity and accessibility”. He acquainted the journalists on 3 new stores opened at Alaba, Ikorodu, and Jakande in 2022 making it easier and cheaper for customers to access and buy TECNO phones and accessories before delving into the BRAND IMPACTS TO CUSTOMERS which highlighted most of their Customer engagement projects such as “Show me love Promo” ‘Budding Photographers Masterclass” “ International Womens Day” “Lagos Fashion Week” The Brand also organised a Short Film contest that saw winners walk away with prizes worth N3,000,000. In highlighting other achievements which came with the year such as Winning the innovative mobile phone brand of the decade award, delivering on the LIGHT UP MM2 project, and partnering with NOLLYWOOD to produce films and documentaries shot with TECNO smartphones, he enthused that the coming year holds a lot in store for its consumers. In their signature style, TECNO’s Brand Ambassadors Tiwa Savage and Fireboy fully represented in delivering on the Brands promises to their audiences as INFLUENCERS and when asked WHAT NEXT? TECNO confidently says,Watch out for the PHANTOM X2.