The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive, National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure, Prof. Mohammad Haruna, hassaid the Federal Government will establish three industrial parks in the country. A statement said Haruna disclosed this during a courtesy call to the Commandant of the Nigerian Air Force Institute of Technology, Kaduna. According to him, about N3.25bn had been earmarked for the first phase of the parks which would be sited in Nnewi (Anambra State); Osogbo (Osun State) and Igabi (Kaduna State). Haruna stated that the center of NASENI Helicopter project of assembly and first made in Nigeria Helicopter was being relocated to Aeronautics and Air Vehicle Development Institute in Kaduna. He explained that the Federal Government of Nigeria had planned to develop industrial parks for the automotive sectors in three zones of the country which are Nnewi (Anambra State), Osogbo (Osun State), and Igabi (Kaduna State). Once fully taken up and equipped, the automotive park would be self-sustaining and a government revenue source. He said, “In the first phase of the project, the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget, and National Planning has earmarked N3.25bn for take-off and we appreciate the honourable minister for the commitment and interest to the project. “We are equally grateful to Malam Nasir El-Rufai, the Executive Governor of Kaduna State for the allocation of 50 hectares of land and his excellency’s magnanimity for granting waivers of all statutory fees for the title of the land.” He noted that the project initiative was in line with the concept of Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment which initially proposed establishing the automotive supplier industrial park in these three locations in the country for technology evolution in the automotive sector. He added, “This is in line with the mandate of NASENI for provision and development of primary and intermediate capital projects required for machine and equipment design, fabrication, and mass production, in order to provide the enabling environment for sustainable industrialisation of the country. “The project is being supervised for NASENI by the Hydraulic Equipment Development Institute Kano, an institute of NASENI for the Agency.” The project, he added, was intended to unlock the opportunities in auto sector as well as potentials in the manufacturing industry with a view of creating employment, skilled labour in this region and the sub-Saharan Africa. It would earn foreign exchange for the country and stop importation of vehicle spare parts. While noting that major vehicle manufacturers from different countries had indicated interest to operate from this facility, he said it was also intended to provide the Nigerian Army Vehicle Manufacturing Company with the necessary support in the production of Armoured Vehicles. He appreciated the Nigerian Air Force for the collaboration and provision of adequate site policing and security since the commencement of the construction work. Haruna said, “Work in the phase one of the project comprising of perimeter fencing, construction of information and communication building, construction of Advanced Manufacturing Technology workshop, construction of automotive spare parts, sales and services outlet were all above 85 per cent.