The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has announced that the state will host the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for a two-day working visit next week. The state Commissioner for Information, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, announced this on Friday during a press briefing held in Alausa, Ikeja. Omotoso disclosed that the presidential visit scheduled for January 23 and 24 would include the inauguration of projects undertaken by the Sanwo-Olu administration which included the Lekki Deep Sea Port, the Imota Rice Mill and the Blue Line Rail project. He said, “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who has asked us to inform you that President Muhammadu Buhari will be on a two-day working visit to our dear state. This will be Mr President’s first official visit to Lagos State since assumption of office by Governor Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr Kadri Hamzat in May, 2019. “It is a visit where Mr President will again see the beauty of Lagos and take the opportunity to see first-hand and commission the life changing and people-oriented projects undertaken by the Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu administration. “The projects are the Lekki Deep Sea Port, a symbol of a good working relationship between the public and private sectors; the 32-metric tonnes per hour Lagos Rice Mill, one of the largest in the world; the 18.75-kilometre six-lane rigid-pavement Eleko Junction to Epe Expressway; the John Randle Centre for Yoruba Culture and History and the iconic Lagos Blue Line rail project.” The commissioner added that Buhari would also inaugurate a private sector project, MRS Lubricant factory in Apapa, noting that the governor and his wife, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu will lead other dignitaries to give the President a befitting state welcome. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government has also announced that traffic will be restricted on Monday, January 23, with diversion on Lagos Island on Tuesday 24th January, 2023 in preparation for Buhari’s visit. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the state Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, on Friday.