The Spokesperson for the Coalition of United Political Parties, Ugochinyere Imo, has raised the alarm over the deteriorating health condition of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. Imo, who addressed journalists at his country home in Akokwa in the Ideato North Local Government Area of Imo State on Wednesday, said that the country might erupt in crisis if Kanu dies in the custody of Department of Security Service. He advised the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to order the DSS to release Kanu to attend to his health issues. Imo contended that the continuous detention of Kanu in DSS custody was illegal, citing a judgment by an Appeal Court in Abuja and state High Court in Umuahia, which ordered for his release. The CUPP spokesperson urged Buhari to release Kanu in the interest of national unity, equity and justice. He said, “I got off the phone from the lawyer to Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, were his deteriorating health condition was brought to my notice. I want to urge Mr President in the interest of peace and security to order the release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “There are several court judgements which have declared his continuous detention illegal. Mr President has the constitutional power through the attorney general to order for the discontinuance of the matter. Kanu should be released then we come to the negotiation table and address those issues that led to the agitation.” Imo also condemned the terrorism charges preferred against the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, by the DSS . Imo asked Buhari to instruct the DSS to withdraw its terrorism charges against Emefiele. He said that many are viewing Emefiele’s ordeal in the hands of DSS as a witch-hunt against the southern people. Imo said that the DSS wouldn’t have picked on Emefiele if he was a northerner. He also carpeted lawmakers in the Imo State House of Assembly for voting against a resolution for the independence of the judiciary, local government autonomy and parliamentary autonomy. Imo urged the people of the state to vote out the state lawmakers for making the state a subject of “national mockery.” He said, “I want to urge Imo people to vote out these set of lawmakers at the Imo State House of Assembly. How could these set of lawmakers vote against their own freedom and independence? This is unthinkable.”