 Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), has called on all states’ Attorneys-General to collaborate with the federal and state governments to ensure an efficient justice system. He made the call on Tuesday during a deliberation aimed at developing synergy between the two tiers of government. Delivering the keynote address, Malami noted that there is a need to evaluate the factors obstructing synergy in the administration of justice. He said, “The structure and system of governance of our federation are not oblivious of the possibility of having genuine disputes and frictions among the federating units, national and sub-national governments. “Despite this, our shared values and common resources also make collaboration and mutual relationships necessary and fundamental. This august Body of Attorneys-General, therefore, occupies a critical position in driving national unity and development. “We need to underplay the culture of mutual mistrust between the federal and state governments, to promote and enhance a symbiotic relationship between the federal and state governments. “Our agenda at this conference seeks, therefore, to examine some of the issues militating against the desired synergy in the administration of justice and proffer practical ways forward. Beyond this Conference, the onus lies on us all to ensure that we sustain these conversations and engagements. “While we presently have quite several such issues at different stages of judicial adjudication; it is not out of place if we jointly take a second look at these issues, to achieve mutual resolution without prejudice to subsisting legal rights. I am advocating this position to sustain our brotherliness, bring our professional calling to bear on governance and reduce tension or frictions; and properly project the state and federal governments as partners and not competitors.” Noting that the fight against insecurity should not be left alone to the Federal Government, Malami urged the law officers to “explore areas of collaboration between the states and the Federal Government in terms of prosecution and other means of combating insecurity.