The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) and the National Pension Commission (PenCom) have endorsed the upcoming 2023 annual conference of BusinessToday Communication Limited.  The conference is billed to hold on Tuesday, April 4, 2023 at Oriental Hotel, Lekki, Lagos.  According to a statement endorsed by the Editor-In-Chief/Chief Executive Officer, BusinessToday and the chairperson, the Nigerian Association of Insurance and Pension Editors (NAIPE), Nkechi Naeche-Esezobor, said experts drawn from insurance and pension sectors would be on hand to speak on the theme of the conference.  The Editor-In-Chief/Chief Executive Officer, BusinessToday and the chairperson, National Association of Insurance and Pension correspondents (NAIPE) disclosed that The two agencies (insurance and pension) will lead other professionals to the conference to discuss burning issues in the insurance and pension sectors.  In her words: “The Conference which is the seventh edition in the series, has the theme: “Consumer Satisfaction In Deepening Penetration In Insurance And Pension Sectors.”  She also revealed that The keynote Speaker for the conference is the Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise [CPPE], Dr. Muda Yusuf, while the Chairman of the occasion is Babajide Olatunde- Agbeja, Chairman Boff and Company Insurance Brokers Limited.  The Commissioner for National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Mr. Sunday Thomas is the special guest of honour, she said.  She said experts drawn from insurance and pension sectors would be on hand to speak on the theme of the conference.  Mrs Naeche-Esezobor further noted that the Director General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar; the Chairman Nigerian Insurers Association, Segun Omoshein ( NIA) and President of Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria, (PenOp),) Mr. Olumide Oyetan, have all confirmed their attendance at the conference.  Similarly, she said, Pension Guru and former Managing Director/ CEO, Access Pension Fund Custodian Limited, Mrs. Idu Okwuosa- Okeahialami and the Director General NIA, Mrs Yetunde Ilori among others, will be in attendance.  “Others expected are: Association of Pension Desk Practitioners of Nigeria; Amagamated Traders Association Alakoro Market; Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Nigerian Union of Pensioners, Trade Union Congress, Nigerian Labour Congress, Association of Senior Staff of Banks Insurance and other Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Consumer Awareness Organisation, Market Women, People Living With Disability in Lagos, Nigerian Port Authority and Students of insurance (Laspotech).  “BusinessToday conference comes up annually to deliberate and find solutions to issues that affect the insurance and pension sectors in Nigeria.  