The Nigerian Communications Commission has said  telecommunications sector is a strategic driver of the digital economy agenda of the Federal Government. It said the sector had continued to provide digital stamina to support the economy, especially the activities of Small and Medium Enterprises in the country. The Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, stated this at the NCC Day during the 44th Kaduna International Trade Fair in Kaduna. Represented by the Head of Consumer Protection And Advocacy, Banji Ojo, he said, “The commission recognises the fact that the telecommunications sector has been a strategic driver of the digital economy agenda of the Federal Government, as it continues to provide the needed digital stamina to support the economy, especially the activities of the SMEs across in Nigeria and beyond. “Information Communications Technology is not only one of the fastest growing industries directly creating millions of jobs, but it is also an important enabler of innovation and development, as it provides the backbone infrastructure for transnational business. “Hence, in line with the digital literacy and skills pillar of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy 2020-2030, for a digital Nigeria, the Commission embarked on digital literacy training for entrepreneurs across the six geopolitical zones of the country. The aim was to equip small-scale business owners with the requisite skills and to generate ideas for the development of product and service that can be exported,” he said. According to Danbattam, the NCC was deepening access to digital services to benefit Nigeria and make it competitive when compared with other sectors in the areas of job creation, contribution to Gross Domestic Product growth, emergence of new services and industries; workforce transformation, and business innovation. He added that the commission was putting some regulatory measures in place to ensure seamless access to telecom services. He said, “In Nigeria today, the number of active mobile subscriptions reached about 222.57 million in December 2022 and a teledensity of 116.60 per cent as of December 2022. Also, Internet subscribers have exceeded 154.8 million with broadband penetration standing at 47.36 per cent as of December 2022.”