The Regional Sales Director, Lagos/Ogun, Dangote Cement Plc, Mr Dolapo Alli, has said that the firm’s automobile subsidiary can produce 10,000 trucks annually. According to him, Dangote Sinotruck West Africa Limited, assembles full range of different types of commercial vehicles covering heavy-duty trucks, medium truck, light truck, semi-trailers, and buses. He stated this at the ongoing 13th Gateway International Trade fair in Abeokuta. He noted that the automobile subsidiary was participating in the trade fair for the first time. Alli said, “The company aims to meet the expected increased demand of segments like logistics, constructions, food and beverage industries as the government focuses on boosting the economic development across the country. “It has capacity to produce 10,000 trucks annually and is creating thousands of jobs both direct and indirect.” According to him, Dangote Group is committed to helping Nigeria attain self-sufficiency in all the economic sectors where it operates. He explained that the group has been a reliable partner to many trade fairs across the country because it believes that Chambers of Commerce & Industry occupies a unique position in driving economic development through their activities. He stated that Dangote Industries ltd considered Ogun State Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture to be unique because Ogun state has one of the largest concentration of industries in Nigeria and serve as a corridor for transportation of goods, services, and people. Alli said, “Gateway International Trade Fair therefore remains an avenue for us to connect with our customers in South-West and other parts of the country. “It is a homecoming as the region is known for innovation and industry. We at Dangote Group and the people of South-West share the trait of ever pushing beyond the limits and discovering new levels of success. “Despite our progressive position, we are innovative and always thinking of strategies that will drive business and create value for our customers. This we achieve by increasing the number and quality of products in our portfolio, as an increased range of products provides more options, alternatives, and business for our customers.” According to him, the company will continue to innovate, create value, and invest in the country.