Insurance Operators gather experts to envisage the 2023 national budget, most especially the aspect that relates to the Insurance Industry and how the industry can reposition itself President, CIIN, Edwin Igbiti Edwin Igbiti, President/Chairman Of Council, Chartered Insurance Institute Of Nigeria (CIIN) welcome all our prestigious Institute’s First Edition of the Business Outlook. A forum where key players in the Insurance Industry as well as the Finance sub-sector of the economy converge to review the business environment in the country for the immediate past year and strategise on the way forward for the insurance industry in the New Year, he added. CIIN President at the 2023 Business Outlook Held At The Lagos, stated that this programme among other things, examines the national budget, reviews the thrusts of the fiscal and monetary policies of government and estimate how these would influence the insurance industry in particular and the economy in general. According to him, this first session of this conference is expected to envisage the 2023 national budget, most especially the aspect that relates to the Insurance Industry and how the industry can reposition itself. “The objective of this conference is to review business and financial activities, share ideas, project proponents for profitability and proffer solutions and recommendations to operational challenges in the country. “It is a platform to discuss the National Budget as it relates to the financial sector, meet professionals from different professions in the financial world and share expertise on the issues pertinent to the growth and development of the Nigeria economy. The theme for this year’s Business Outlook is “Reshaping the Financial Sector: Emergent Challenges and Opportunities”. Igbiti of the optimistic that this edition will be very insightful considering the positive projections of the global industry at the beginning of the year. “At this juncture, I like to appreciate the commissioner for Insurance for always answering our calls whenever we reach out and doing so with the zeal, dexterity and commitment that defines true professionalism. I also, like to salute our erudite speakers; Professor Godwin Oyedokun, Professor of Accounting & Financial Development, Lead City University, Dr. Muda Yusuf, CEO, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise, Mr. Olufemi Awoyemi, Chairman, Proshare Nigeria Limited, Mr. Wale Oluwade, CEO, Growth Masters Consulting, Ms. Adeolu Adewunmi-Zer, Global strategist and Transformation leader, Mr. Babatunde Daramola, Executive Director, Consolidated Hallmark Assurance Plc, and Ms. Adetola Adegbayi, Executive Director, Leadway Assurance Company Limited. We appreciate your thoughtfulness for agreeing to partner with the Institute on this remarkable programme, he stated. “Let me conclude my address by welcoming you all again to this programme which promises to be very interactive and knowledge driven.