The Federal Government has commenced the construction of a 2×30/40MVA, 123/33kv electricity substation with six feeders and stated that the project would help grow the country’s power transmission capacity to 25,000 megawatts. Nigeria’s power transmission capacity currently hovers around 7,500MW and 8,000MW, though electricity generation on the national grid has been fluctuating between 4,000MW and 5,000MW for several years. Electricity produced by generation companies is transmitted to distribution companies by the Federal Government-owned Transmission Company of Nigeria. The government’s new transmission project is being constructed to boost the evacuation capacity of TCN. The Minister of State for Power, Goddy Jedy-Agba, flagged off the construction of the 2×30/40MVA, 123/33kv transmission substation with six feeders at Ididep, Ibiono Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State Jedy-Agba, in a statement issued in Abuja on Wednesday by the Federal Ministry of Power, said the project would be completed in 18 months, starting from the date it was approved by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). He said the Federal Ministry of Power and TCN had to embark on the construction of the transmission substation to strengthen the national grid, improve service delivery and increase the capacity to supply power. The statement added that upon completion of the new transmission project, “it will strengthen the national grid by increasing its wheeling capacity to 25,000MW by 2025.” Jedy-Agba further informed the gathering that the project was a campaign promise fulfilled by Buhari, to the people of Akwa Ibom State. On his part, the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Emmanuel Udom, who was represented by the Commissioner of Power and Petroleum, James Etim, thanked the Federal Government for the project and promised to support the initiative. Also speaking at the flag-off ceremony, the paramount Chief of Ididep Ibiono, Ime Usoro, said he was interested in projects that influenced the live of citizens, and promised to work with the state government to ensure the successful completion of the project. The Director Transmission, TCN, Nosike Emmanuel, urged the state government and people of Akwa Ibom State to provide all the necessary assistance that would be required by the transmission company to make the project a reality.