The think tank to support the development and advancement of marketing in Nigeria would be inaugurated in the country in the first quarter of 2023, Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN) has revealed. The Nigerian Marketing Development Team, will be a group of top Marketing Professionals from the various multinational and local organizations, to lead growth and value for marketing in Nigeria, through the execution of relevant research, case studies, as well as the provision of top value marketing and business insights Speaking on the objective of the group- The ADVAN President Osamede Uwubanmwen said, “As senior professionals of marketing, we have a duty to lead the narrative for marketing in Nigeria. For The Profession- we must contribute towards creating valuable, real-time marketing insights, case studies etc that serve in educating up-coming professionals”. “For The Practice- we need to provide learnings on how effective marketing should be done, this we will do by providing insights for global marketing best practices in Nigeria,” he said. Speaking on the structure of the team, Osamede added that “An online platform will be set up to showcase all the work being done. The platform will publish contributions, position papers, research, articles, etc, for the marketing industry and nation as a whole.” Already some higher institutions of learning have invited the ADVAN team to contribute on formulating robust curricula for their business departments. Also, the World Federation of Advertisers has invited Nigerian Marketing leaders to be part of the Sustainable Marketing 2030 global project, a project in over 45 countries around the world. As 2023 marks the halfway point for the achievement of the United National Sustainable Development Goals. ADVAN along with WFA and Kantar, are launching a global research project to understand what’s changed, what still needs to happen – and better understand the role of marketing in being part of the solution to a more sustainable future ADVAN is the umbrella body for all Advertisers – organizations that engage in high level marketing activities to showcase their businesses. The association’s members control over 90% of marketing spend in Nigeria