The Vice Chancellor of the University of Port Harcourt, Professor Owunari Georgewil, has commended the Chief Executive Officer of Lekki Gardens Limited-Nigeria’s foremost real estate company, Mr. Richard Nyong for awarding
scholarships to 200 students of the University. Professor Owunari Georgewil gave the commendation while delivering his remarks during a ceremony for the presentation of the scholarship award to beneficiaries held on Friday, January 13, 2023, at the institution&#39;s campus.
“On behalf of the senate, management, academic and non-academic staff, parents, and entire students of UNIPORT, I would like to express our profound appreciation to Dr. Richard Nyong (OON), the CEO of Lekki Gardens Estate Limited, our illustrious alumnus, whom we are very proud of, for this gesture of full 4-year scholarship award to 200 students to empower them to accomplish
their academic goals,” he said While congratulating all the beneficiaries, the Vice Chancellor charged them to make the best use of the opportunity not only by justifying the scholarship but by striving to raise the bar of excellence in their academic pursuit. He also admonished them to be forward-thinking about reciprocating the gesture in the future. He then called on other well-meaning alumni of the University to emulate Dr. Richard Nyong in giving back to their Alma mater by contributing their own quota towards the development and upliftment of the institution. According to the CEO of Lekki Gardens Estate Limited, Nyong (OON), the scholarship is part of his personal effort to give birth to society in line with his philosophy that everyone has a role to play in building society and that everyone deserves a chance to have access to education to the university level which will help to shape his or her future. He explained that he announced the scholarship 2 years ago as part of activities marking his 4oth birthday, but noted that the implementation was stalled by the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and the long ASUU strike. He expressed delight at the presentation of the scholarships to the beneficiaries. He applauded the beneficiaries for working so hard to earn the scholarships; he enjoined them to be law-abiding and continue to work harder as good ambassadors of the great citadel of learning. Nyong revealed that he was also a beneficiary of a scholarship grant by Mobil Nigeria Limited during his time as a student at the University. He noted that his academic pursuit would not have been easy without the scholarship. “It is because I have walked the path that you are walking that I can confidently but with profound humility state that I know where the shoe pinches. I dare say that without the Mobil Scholarship, it would have been nearly impossible to complete my education at the University because that scholarship made a difference for me. Some people at the time had to drop out due to lack of financial
capabilities and support”, he said