The publisher & convener, Mr Goddie Ofose The fourth edition of ‘The Industry Summit/Awards’ has released the theme and topics for the 2023 summit, which focus on effective usage of data for intelligence in marketing and impact of government policy on fast moving consumer goods. This year’s theme is “How Marketers Should Handle 2023’ and the summit is scheduled for March 31st, 2023 at D’Podium Centre in Ikeja Lagos. Sir Steve Omojafor, former Chairman of Zenith Bank Plc would chair the session. The annual event, which is the initiative of The Industry Newspaper, one of the leading Brand Marketing publications in Nigeria will bring together professionals in marketing, communications, technology, banking, manufacturing, advertising, public relations, government agencies, students among others with the aim of sharing ideas and network. According to the convener, Mr Goddie Ofose, “For the first time since 2020, The Industry Summit/Awards 4.0 will feature two keynote speakers such as Mr. Tolu Ogunkoya, Regional GMD, OMG West & Central Africa (WeCA)/Chairman, Audience Measurement Board speaking on the topic “Turn Data to Action: How Marketers Can Rationalize Performance Measurement & Drive Efficiencies with Intelligence” and Mr. Ekuma Eze, Corporate Affairs & Sustainability Director at Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company to speak on “FMCG: Impact of Government Policy Shift on the Industry”. Panelists for these papers are drawn from all the industries and they are Mr. O’tega Ogra, Group Head/GM, Brands & Corporate Communications at BUA Group, Mrs. Temitope Oguntokun – Corporate Affairs and Legal Director, ABInBev, Mr. Tope Ashiwaju, Director Public Relation & Events, De-United Foods Industries ltd, Mr. Segun Ogunleye, General Manager Marketing · Seven Up Bottling Company, Mrs. Victoria Ndidiamaka Uwadoka, Corporate Communications & Public Affairs Manager at Nestlé Nigeria, Mr. Muyiwa Akande, Group Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group and the Moderator is Mr. Sunday Esan, General Manager, Corporate Communications, Dangote Group. Others include Mr. Nduneche Ezurike, Group Head, Brands & Marketing Communications, Polaris Bank, Mr. Dotun Babatunde, Head of Digital Marketing, Olam Nigeria, Mr. Lekan Akinyele, Creative Director, 7even Interactive, Ms. Chineze Amanfo, PR Lead 9mobile, Ms. Sandra Amachree, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Senior Manager, Media, Brand PR & Sponsorships, Ms. Amaka Uremeh, Digital Strategist & Community Manager, Digital Marketing Institute Lagos, Mrs. Cassandra Uzo-Ogbugh, External Comms & Partnerships Lead, SSA For Reckitt and the Moderator is Mr. Godfrey Adejumoh, Corporate Communications Manager, Unilever Nigeria. Commenting further on the summit, the Editor-in-Chief of The Industry Newspaper, Ofose said that theme resonates with the industry particularly as 2023 is a general election year and marketers would be either confused or convinced to execute their plans. “Data has become a critical element in planning marketing campaigns in the Nigerian marketing communication ecosystem therefore, the importance of data mining cannot be overemphasized. The choice of Mr. Ogunkoya who is currently the chairman of Audience Measurement Board could not be questioned because the paper in itself talks about the performance measurement through data,” Ofose said. In the second paper, he stated that Mr. Eze, a renowned bottler who is currently working as the biggest soft-drink bottler in West Africa is the best fit for the paper. “Recently, the Nigerian government implemented an excise tax of N10 per litre on sweetened beverages as part of efforts to prevent and discourage excessive consumption of sugar and this has reflected in the upward price review and other ripple effect in the industry.” “Looking at this subject matter becomes necessary and stakeholders are seeking platforms to adequately discuss it,” Ofose added. According to him, the second segment of the event which will commence by 6pm will be a Dinner/Awards where deserving organisations and professionals would be honoured for their efforts in promoting marketing and marketing communications in the country.